---
layout: post
title: "HW1: Chapter 1"  
---


## Chapter 1

### 1.3:  What are the four important attributes that all professional software should possess? Suggest four other attributes that may sometimes be significant.

The 4 important attributes of professionally developed software should possess are:

1. Acceptability
2. Maintainability
3. Dependability and Security
4. Efficiency

Aside from that, four other attributes that may be significant are:

1. Heterogenity
2. Business and Social change
3. Security and Trust
4. Software Scalability

### 1.8: Discuss whether professional software engineers should be licensed in the same way as doctors or lawyers.

I believe that there should be some level of certification for Software Engineers. Seeing as many network professionals are strongly encouraged to gain certifications so that there is a common understanding of the tools and environments they could encounter, Software Engineers should have the ability to take certification tests to allow employers to establish a baseline for the profession. An example would be the Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) certification and an equivalent would be something along the lines of a Certified Ethical Coder or some other name that is appropriate.

### 1.9: For each of the clauses in the ACM/IEEE Code of Ethics shown in Figure 1.4, propose an appropriate example that illustrates that clause.

1. Public: Code an program that users will use to solve a problem
2. Client and Employer: Coders should code a prgram that their employer and client has contracted and meets the specifications provided.  
3. Product: A program should be patched if there is a security vulnerablity is discovered and the vulnerability disclosed.
4. Judgment: Programmers must make decisions on a program that would benefit the end user the best.
5. Management: Maintanence procedures on a program will come from the top down and a culture will be formed around the procedures. 
6. Profession: Programmers should look to involve themselves with the youger generations and pass down knowledge gained.
7. Colleagues: A programmer should take interest in their coworkers' projects and listen to suggestions, as well as support their career decisions.
8. Self: Programmers should continue learning about current technologies and learn how to implement them into current or future projects.

### 1.10: To help counter terrorism, many countries are planning or have developed computer systems that track large numbers of their citizens and their actions. Clearly, this has privacy implications. Discuss the ethics of working on the development of this type of system.

The positives of this systems are outweighed by the negatives of this system. The first negative includes the ability for data sniffing for governments, as they will be able to collect data unbeknownst to the user. The next negative is if a backdoor is developed, what is stopping a nation-state from discovering the vulnerability and sniffing for data that could be used in a social engineering campaign that can occur during an election. The final negative is the loss of trust in the governments if it was disclosed that spying on their own citizens broke to the news. There would be another case of the Edward Snowden saga, trust in the government would decline, and public opinion would change as well. The only benefit would be more data for government agencies, but there is a slim chance within that data set that there would be an attack that would be thwarted. There also would not be much media coverage if bulk data collection was the reason for a raid on a potential terrorist.