---
layout: post
title: "HW3: Chapters 11 & 12"  
---

## Chapter 11

### 11.4 What is the common characteristic of all architectural styles that are geared to supporting software fault tolerance?

        One characteristic that all architectural styles incorporate a fail safe module or system to protect against a failed input. This can be seen in many applications, especially in equipment that puts lives at stake, such as flight control systems and medical monitoring devices.

### 11.7 It has been suggested that the control software for a radiation therapy machine, used to treat patients with cancer, should be implemented using N-version programming. Comment on whether or not you think this is a good suggestion.

        The use of N-Version programming would not be a welcome addition to a radiation therapy machine. The benefit to the implementation would be an extra layer of data checking to ensure the therapy machine dispenses the correct amount of radiation. The drawbacks to implementing this system are that N-Version programming relies on hardware failure rather than a software failure, and if the wrong dosage is given then it will be fatal for the patient. The other drawback to the added system to the therapy machine is that the additional system would also be subject to the same regulations and standards and those could be ignored for sake of profit.

### 11.9 Explain why you should explicitly handle all exceptions in a system that is intended to have a high level of availability.

        If exceptions are handled explicitly, it allows for the continuation of the software to continue running. If exceptions are not handled, then the program will crash or produce incorrect outputs for the user. If the exception results in the former, that will result in a financial loss for the company that produces the

### 12.5 A train protection system automatically applies the brakes of a train if the speed limit for a segment of track is exceeded, or if the train enters a track segment that is currently signaled with a red light (i.e., the segment should not be entered). There are two critical-safety requirements for this train protection system:
* The train shall not enter a segment of track that is signaled with a red light.
* The train shall not exceed the specified speed limit for a section of track.
### Assuming that the signal status and the speed limit for the track segment are transmitted to on-board software on the train before it enters the track segment, propose five possible functional system requirements for the onboard software that may be generated from the system safety requirements.

    Five possible Functional Requirements for the Train system are:
    1. The train system needs to be able to communicate over a centralized network
    2. The system needs to calculate the current speed of the train at any given time
    3. A signal must be handled for the color of the light at a section of a track
    4. The system needs to handle errors for possible decouplements (ex: the speed drastically increases after losing a car)
    5. The system needs to communicate to the engineer of any issues with any mechanical equipment on the train