---
layout: post
title: "HW2: Reflections on software engineering practices"  
---

## Reflection on Software Engineering practices

Software Engineers in this day and age are faced with adversity as it relates to their working environments and workflows. They are faced with ever evolving workflows, programming languages, and technology to develop their applications for. This constant evolution in development is hard to put into perspective, but software engineers have stepped up to the plate and have adapted to their surroundings.
The first concern that software engineers face today is the fact that they are developing for technologies that are constantly changing, especially with the languages that also change with the development of software products. An example of this would be the move that is occurring from Object-Oriented Programming to a focus on development on Artificial Intelligence. This shift is due in large part to the technological advances and the versatility of the software that is in development. One of the other problems facing software developers is the fact that technology is ever evolving and a new requirement for development is how well the product scales from a localized instance to how well the product scales to the cloud. Although it has not been a problem to scale to the cloud, it is another set of skills that software engineers need to add to their toolboxes for future development.
Next, workflows that software developers utilize continue to evolve and the process to implement changes to software can differ slightly from company to company and product to product. To confuse matters even more, some teams and team leads will differ in the ways that they want to remediate bugs and the ways that bugs are labeled can differ greatly. Software engineers are faced with constant critique of their abilities to fix bugs from supervisors. There needs to be a level of trust between manager and developer, although there also needs to be a relationship between developers to help test patches for bugs. Though according to George V. Neville-Neil, there should be different levels and classifications of bug remediation. They are: bug analyzed, patched |, and bug fixed. These classifications offer some guidance for remediation in a way that can become common across the industry, along with a proven or disproven quantifier for test cases that prove or disprove the implemented patch.
Finally, there is also a concern for the toolchains that software developers use on a daily basis. In Google’s case, they have a central code repository rather than individualized or specialized repositories for their products. This can be both beneficial and at the same time confusing. The toolchains and methods that are used in Google’s case, they have implemented a branching model that only takes the best features of the main code branch and deploys them to the release branch. This differs from other models since their main repository contains the bulk of their code and their releases are branches off of the main branch, rather than test branches off of the main branch and then merged.
In conclusion, there are concerns that software engineers face in this day and age. Although they may seem minimal, they can become problematic once development teams are scaled to build more robust applications. But, software developers are ever evolving and are willing to take up the challenge to adapt to the evolving environment that is software development
