---
layout: post
title: "HW4: Reflections on software failures"  
---

## HW4: Reflections on software failures

Software failures have been a problem in development since software engineering has become a profession. Although there have been advances in the field in increased success, there are aspects of software development that are playing catch up for the industry. Examples of this would be through security implementation and security assessments for projects and the ever changing technology that is being developed to deploy applications in a secure way.

With regards to security, it has been an afterthought for development for years and that the process to implement security through development has only been added to the development cycle through DevOPs and Sec DevOPs. Security is an ever evolving field and attack vectors and signatures are ever changing. Implementing security in a product takes time, and most times it's time that a project does not have on their timeline for deployment of the product. Project timelines are one of the major road bumps for implementing a full blown secure application.

The first step to implementing security would be to perform a full risk assessment of the systems that are involved in the development of a product and ensure that the systems are indeed secure before development begins. Once the systems are secured, then development should begin and if network connections are present, they must be secured and monitored so that outside threats cannot disturb development, steal code or data, and disallow for uploading remote access trojans (RATs) to disturb and compromise the entire company. There also has to be training for all the users in the company and on especially on the development team, because the threat of phishing and other user-oriented attacks. By falling for these attacks, as simple as they may sound, can be catastrophic if one employee's information is leaked and not properly attended to, can be used for leverage and blackmail of the employee for more access to the company.

There was a specific software project that crossed into both software engineering and security became intertwined when the FBI began to move from paper records to virtual case files (VCFs). The idea was simple in nature, the FBI wanted to move their case records online so that they could begin to modernize and access records in the field. Issues with the project started to show up immediately, mainly due in part to building security into the product from the ground up. As time progressed with the project, the overall cost to feature/usability implementation was not balanced, leaning favorably in the direction of the costs outweighing the performance. Overall the project ran over budget by millions of dollars and it took the project roughly seven years to make it to full deployment to the field for the FBI.

In conclusion, security is a hard topic to grasp and integrate into a product from the ground up. In order to deploy a secure product to a working environment. In order to deploy a product securely, a development team needs to think like a hacker and ensure that the proper secure libraries are used and use the tools and methodologies white hat (good guys) hackers use to ensure that environments are secure and safe for real world deployment. If the product is not secure before deployment, the small flaw that exists could lead to a massive ransomware attack where cities and hospitals grind to a halt and will not be able to operate. 
