---
layout: post
title: "Reflections on Open Source in Today's World"  
---

# Reflections on Open Source in Today's World

## Articles

[Article 1](https://opensource.com/article/21/1/ifconfig-ip-linux)

[Article 2](https://opensource.com/article/20/6/modern-linux-command-line-tools)

## Introduction

The articles that I have selected are `Linux` specific and are describing the newer methods for gathering information and upgrading workflows with `bash`. Most commands that are built into `bash` have been around since the early days of `Unix` and `*nix` and need some additional updates for efficiency, streamlining, and over user-friendliness. The tools found in the articles below are some tools I use on a daily basis and some that I never used before and am glad I have discovered them

## Why you need to drop ifconfig for ip

The first article I selected was for networking within the `bash` interface in a terminal. While learning `Linux` and the `CLI`, `ifconfig` was the main networking command that worked across multiple distributions of `Linux` and was very user friendly. The article selected, mentions this as `ifconfig` has served `Linux` well, but it is time to move on from the old and outdated utility.

Although `ip` is the new tool on the block, it is still available in most distributions installed by defualt or the `net-tools` package is available to download from the package manager. Also, with a new tool, the total move to the new standard cannot happen overnight due to the learning curve associated with the new standard. `ifconfig` is a pretty straightforward command and the article does a great job of comparing and noting the `ifconfig` and `ip` equivalents to showcase the differences between the two tools. Though I must say from my perspective, `ipconfig` is great for beginners, but `ip` has come along and fully updated the command and has allowed for more verbose options for the simple operations, albeit with a learning curve.

## 5 modern alternatives to essential Linux command-line tools

The second article I selected runs along the same lines as the first article but with more tools with their modern equivalents. The author selected the following tools

- `ncdu`
- `htop`
- `tldr`
- `jq`
- `fd`

The first two tools I have used their older equivalents `top` (for dynamically checking system processes) and `du`, with `du` getting the following alias in my `.bash_aliases` file: `alias allocate="du -sh"`. The only noticible difference between `top` and `htop` are the aesthetics, they both work fine and both are installed on my distributiuon of choice, [Parrot OS](parrot.sh). I have not heard of `tldr` but upon installing it on my desktop, it seems like a cool tool, but in the end it appears that `man` is still better suited for what `tldr` is looking to replace: additional information and options for running a tool. When I look for help, I want to have as many options as well as much information on the options as possible. `tldr` does not accomplish this and `man` is installed out of the box for majority of the dirtributions of `Linux` that are one the market. The final two tools, `jq` and `fd`, I have not used, nor have I had the opprotunity to install them, especially `fd` since there seem to be some dependemcies that are not available for `Parrot OS` at this moment (this also includes trying to install the package with the `--fix-missing` flag for `apt`). `jq` is `JSON` specific, and I have not had the opporotunity to use `JSON` files for any projects that I have worked on, but look to learn more about them in the future.

## Conclusion

In general, both articles have really good intentions, but their arguments may not have been as convincing as they intended. Both explained why the new tools were better, but I found that both articles showed the old and new equivalent of the same commands, but the first article only focused on one specific use case and two tools rather than a `tldr` on 5 different tools. When push comes to shove, both articles communicated their points well and I learned about a few more tools for bash that I had never heard of before and will look to apply these tools to my workflow and toolchain.